virtual_appliance_host/no_code_with_guardrails/README.md, before:

# "No Code" + "Safe First" + "Bastion" + "Virtual Appliance Host" for Equinix Metal

Or **NCSFBVAHfEM** for short... Just kiding, shorten it to *no_code_bastion* or `ncb` for really short.

<p float="middle">
  <img src="docs/assets/diagram.jpg" width="32%" />
</p>

When evaluating or working with [Equinix Metal](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/bare-metal/), operators often want a "fastest path to running an application or device inside of the Equinix", where the bootstrap curve of the Equinix Metal is such that often the hardest part is figuring out where to start.

<p float="middle">
  <img src="docs/assets/dashboard.PNG" width="32%" />
</p>

*no_code_bastion* aims to minimize the amount of toil needed to quickly and safely establish a familiar operational beachead inside of Equinix Metal for operators looking to get going quickly and safely-ish (or atleast, more so than without this resource) with their project.

By "Ctrl + C" & "Ctrl + V"'ing this [cloud-init](cloud_inits/el9_no_code_safety_first_appliance_host.yaml) into the [Userdata](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/server-metadata/user-data/) field when provisioning an [Equinix Metal instance](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/bare-metal/servers/), an Operator should be returned a useable, working `no_code_bastion` instance, ready for brush clearing.

Please note, as with anything in this reposistory, this resource is not supported by **ANYONE**. It is meant solely and exclusively as a reference resource. That being said, as of summer 2023, the owner is still looking to improve this resource and fix any quick wins. If anything about this perks you interest, get in contact with your [Equinix Metal sales team](https://deploy.equinix.com/get-started/).

**Quick Bullet Points of Toils Solved:**

- [Management UI](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/managing_systems_using_the_rhel_9_web_console/index) ([Cockpit](https://cockpit-project.org/) via self-signed HTTPS over [Metal Internet](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/ip-addresses/#public-ipv4-subnet))
- VM hosting via [libvirt](https://libvirt.org/) (accesible in [Cockpit](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/managing_systems_using_the_rhel_9_web_console/managing-virtual-machines-in-the-web-console_system-management-using-the-rhel-9-web-console))
- Container hosting via [podman](https://podman.io/) (accesible in [Cockpit](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit-podman))
- Automatic Updates configured via [dnf-automatic](https://dnf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/automatic.html)
- Basic securitization (`root` -> `adminuser`, firewall up, user-lockout etc)
- Mounts largest non-HDD free disk to `/mnt/util/`
  - Adds it as storage volume to `libvirt`
  - Exposed via private network HTTP (via `nginx` below)
  - Exposed via private network NFS (via `nfs-server`)
- Network
    - Replaces stock Metal networking with `eth0/1` -> `bond0` -> `bridge` -> `VLAN` model allowing guests access to the native VLAN (carrying EM's [Layer-3 network](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/ip-addresses/)) + [tagged VLAN](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/layer2-networking/overview/)s while persisting the desired [Equinix Metal LACP bonding](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/server-level-networking/#your-servers-lacp-bonding) configuration.
        - This allows the instance and it's guests to acces [Interconnection](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/interconnections/introduction/)
    - DHCP + NAT Internet in guest network via relatively stock [libvirt](https://wiki.libvirt.org/VirtualNetworking.html)
    - Inside VLAN Layer-3 configuration dynamic based on hostname, e.g a host launched as `bn-am-55` will use `55` as it's inside IP for all networks (e.g `172.16.100.55`), a host launched with `bn-am-33` would then be assigned `33` (e.g `172.16.100.33`), and they would be able to ping each other inside VLAN `3880` when assigned that VLAN from the Metal platform.
    - Forward DNS in guest network (via hijack of libvirt's dnsmasq with Metal's DNS as next forward hop)
    - Reverse DNS in guest network (via hijack of libvirt's dnsmasq)
        ```
        [adminuser@ncb-sv-04 ~]$ dig -x 172.16.101.5 @172.16.100.4

        ; <<>> DiG 9.16.23-RH <<>> -x 172.16.101.5 @172.16.100.4
        ;; global options: +cmd
        ;; Got answer:
        ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 41917
        ;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

        ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
        ; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
        ;; QUESTION SECTION:
        ;5.101.16.172.in-addr.arpa.     IN      PTR

        ;; ANSWER SECTION:
        5.101.16.172.in-addr.arpa. 0    IN      PTR     host-5.mgmtb.gtst.local.

        ;; Query time: 0 msec
        ;; SERVER: 172.16.100.4#53(172.16.100.4)
        ;; WHEN: Tue Sep 05 22:58:12 UTC 2023
        ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 91
        ```
        - Note the generic `host-5.mgmtb.gtst.local.`
    - Automatic inclusion in [EM SA Network Schema networks](https://github.com/dlotterman/metal_code_snippets/tree/main/virtual_appliance_host/no_code_with_guardrails#em-sa-network-schema), simply apply VLANs from the Metal UI / CLI in [Hybrid Bonded](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/layer2-networking/hybrid-bonded-mode/) mode
- HTTP endpoint via NGINX
    - Public Internet exposed HTTP endpoint (port `80` on Metal Instance's [Public IP](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/ip-addresses/#public-ipv4-subnet))
    - Private ([Backend Transfer](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/backend-transfer/) + VLAN only, port `81`) exposed HTTP endpoint (not open to internet)
- NFS / NAS via linux
    - Exposes largest non-HDD drive via NFS to private networks, including Metal's Backend Transfer network
- Should work with broadly with [Equinix Metal hardware](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/hardware/standard-servers/) (including [4x port boxes](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/servers/n3-xlarge/) and the [s3.xlarge](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/servers/s3-xlarge/)

## Documentation

- [TLDR on how this works](docs/tldr.md)
- [Provisioning](docs/provisioning.md)
    1. [Privisioning video](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/EWDXuOfNxCNDoZGRYgbz8JEBnQkky7fWD1Th4Eg5O41WLA?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=aYpY6H)
- [Video adding a VM from Cloud install](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/Ectv795zYmZHp4nE7-ODOHgBR6GN8E2KDuwWCUwJ8BDsww?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=G8TKEf)
- [Video adding Windows VM from ISO w/ VLAN](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/EWZj3Z3qULdIgkaPjOQzfwABOzGsgL3huqt33Na9SprmGg?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=BwEkH6)
- [Video adding container with example of `podman pull` to show equivalent of `docker pull`](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/ERTMEtdsHONAj25OjlxtGdIBF6Tb9Or6_r5OT0AOpJB1qg?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=14QHeH)
- [Video adding a new Metal VLAN network](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/Eb0FZxWqfzpKhuYssc7XjeABtbEu3LAOHLODJ65Iiql9mQ?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=m8Dvrv)
- [Security TLDR (WIP)](docs/security_tldr.md)
- [TODO](docs/todo.md)
- [Known Issues](docs/known_issues.md)

The video links are links to Equinix's 0365 Sharepoint (sharepoint.com), and they are just hosted MP4's. The public share may expire from time to time, my apologies, corporate policy.

### Tools you will want

- A well setup SSH toolchain including a public key associated with your user in Equinix Metal
  - This includes the use of SSH based Interconnection
    - [SOCKS](https://github.com/dlotterman/metal_code_snippets/blob/main/documentation_stage/operator_documentation/bastion_socks_tunnel_guide.md#configuring-ssh-with-socks)
	- With a correctly configured SOCKs proxy, you can naviate *"inside"* or private resources like ESXi interfaces, storage interfaces, or Interconnection attached resources, easily from a single point. It is often easiest to "Dedicate a browser to the function", [Firefox Portable](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/1286588) makes this easy and supports tunneled DNS.
    - [Local / Remote Port Forwading](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-setup-ssh-tunneling/)
      - This makes things like RDP'ing to a hosted VM simple and fast. No fiddling with VPN's, no dangerous exposed ports to the internet. Everything gets encrypted, everything stays private.
- A VNC client
  - The author promotes [TigerVNC](https://github.com/TigerVNC/tigervnc)
    - [VNC over SSH](https://sscf.ucsd.edu/self-help-guides/tutorials/linux/vnc-with-ssh-tunnel)


## EM SA Network Schema:
[Reference link](https://github.com/dlotterman/metal_code_snippets/blob/main/documentation_stage/em_sa_network_schema.md)
| Role            | VLAN      | Default Layer-3         |
|-----------------|-----------|-------------------------|
| `mgmt_a`        | `3880`    | `172.16.100.0/24`       |
| `mgmt_b`        | `3780`    | `192.168.101.0/24`      |
| `storage_a`     | `3870`    | `172.16.253.0/24`       |
| `storage_b`     | `3770`    | `192.168.252.0/24`      |
| `local_a`       | `3860`    | `172.16.251.0/24`       |
| `local_b`       | `3760`    | `192.168.250.0/24`      |
| `inter_a`       | `3850`    | `172.16.249.0/24`       |
| `inter_b`       | `3750`    | `192.168.248.0/24`      |
| `libvirt/guest` | `4`       | `DHCP 192.168.122.0/24` |

Commit message:

updates including private http proxy

virtual_appliance_host/no_code_with_guardrails/README.md, after:

# "No Code" + "Safe First" + "Bastion" + "Virtual Appliance Host" for Equinix Metal

Or **NCSFBVAHfEM** for short... Just kiding, shorten it to *no_code_bastion* or `ncb` for really short.

<p float="middle">
  <img src="docs/assets/diagram.jpg" width="32%" />
</p>

When evaluating or working with [Equinix Metal](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/bare-metal/), operators often want a "fastest path to running an application or device inside of the Equinix", where the bootstrap curve of the Equinix Metal is such that often the hardest part is figuring out where to start.

<p float="middle">
  <img src="docs/assets/dashboard.PNG" width="32%" />
</p>

*no_code_bastion* aims to minimize the amount of toil needed to quickly and safely establish a familiar operational beachead inside of Equinix Metal for operators looking to get going quickly and safely-ish (or atleast, more so than without this resource) with their project.

By "Ctrl + C" & "Ctrl + V"'ing this [cloud-init](cloud_inits/el9_no_code_safety_first_appliance_host.yaml) into the [Userdata](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/server-metadata/user-data/) field when provisioning an [Equinix Metal instance](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/bare-metal/servers/), an Operator should be returned a useable, working `no_code_bastion` instance, ready for brush clearing.

Please note, as with anything in this reposistory, this resource is not supported by **ANYONE**. It is meant solely and exclusively as a reference resource. That being said, as of summer 2023, the owner is still looking to improve this resource and fix any quick wins. If anything about this perks you interest, get in contact with your [Equinix Metal sales team](https://deploy.equinix.com/get-started/).

**Quick Bullet Points of Toils Solved:**

- [Management UI](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/managing_systems_using_the_rhel_9_web_console/index) ([Cockpit](https://cockpit-project.org/) via self-signed HTTPS over [Metal Internet](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/ip-addresses/#public-ipv4-subnet))
- VM hosting via [libvirt](https://libvirt.org/) (accesible in [Cockpit](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/managing_systems_using_the_rhel_9_web_console/managing-virtual-machines-in-the-web-console_system-management-using-the-rhel-9-web-console))
- Container hosting via [podman](https://podman.io/) (accesible in [Cockpit](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit-podman))
- Automatic Updates configured via [dnf-automatic](https://dnf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/automatic.html)
- Basic securitization (`root` -> `adminuser`, firewall up, user-lockout etc)
- Mounts largest non-HDD free disk to `/mnt/util/`
  - Adds it as storage volume to `libvirt`
  - Exposed via private network HTTP (via `nginx` below)
  - Exposed via private network NFS (via `nfs-server`)
- Network
    - Replaces stock Metal networking with `eth0/1` -> `bond0` -> `bridge` -> `VLAN` model allowing guests access to the native VLAN (carrying EM's [Layer-3 network](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/ip-addresses/)) + [tagged VLAN](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/layer2-networking/overview/)s while persisting the desired [Equinix Metal LACP bonding](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/server-level-networking/#your-servers-lacp-bonding) configuration.
        - This allows the instance and it's guests to acces [Interconnection](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/interconnections/introduction/)
    - DHCP + NAT Internet in guest network via relatively stock [libvirt](https://wiki.libvirt.org/VirtualNetworking.html)
    - Inside VLAN Layer-3 configuration dynamic based on hostname, e.g a host launched as `bn-am-55` will use `55` as it's inside IP for all networks (e.g `172.16.100.55`), a host launched with `bn-am-33` would then be assigned `33` (e.g `172.16.100.33`), and they would be able to ping each other inside VLAN `3880` when assigned that VLAN from the Metal platform.
    - Forward DNS in guest network (via hijack of libvirt's dnsmasq with Metal's DNS as next forward hop)
    - Reverse DNS in guest network (via hijack of libvirt's dnsmasq)
        ```
        [adminuser@ncb-sv-04 ~]$ dig -x 172.16.101.5 @172.16.100.4

        ; <<>> DiG 9.16.23-RH <<>> -x 172.16.101.5 @172.16.100.4
        ;; global options: +cmd
        ;; Got answer:
        ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 41917
        ;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

        ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
        ; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
        ;; QUESTION SECTION:
        ;5.101.16.172.in-addr.arpa.     IN      PTR

        ;; ANSWER SECTION:
        5.101.16.172.in-addr.arpa. 0    IN      PTR     host-5.mgmtb.gtst.local.

        ;; Query time: 0 msec
        ;; SERVER: 172.16.100.4#53(172.16.100.4)
        ;; WHEN: Tue Sep 05 22:58:12 UTC 2023
        ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 91
        ```
        - Note the generic `host-5.mgmtb.gtst.local.`
    - Automatic inclusion in [EM SA Network Schema networks](https://github.com/dlotterman/metal_code_snippets/tree/main/virtual_appliance_host/no_code_with_guardrails#em-sa-network-schema), simply apply VLANs from the Metal UI / CLI in [Hybrid Bonded](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/layer2-networking/hybrid-bonded-mode/) mode
- HTTP endpoint via NGINX
    - Public Internet exposed HTTP endpoint (port `80` on Metal Instance's [Public IP](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/ip-addresses/#public-ipv4-subnet))
    - Private ([Backend Transfer](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/networking/backend-transfer/) + VLAN only, port `81`) exposed HTTP endpoint (not open to internet)
- Forward HTTP proxy via NGINX
    - Allows servers on private networks to use `ncb` as a simple HTTP proxy on port 83
- NFS / NAS via linux
    - Exposes largest non-HDD drive via NFS to private networks, including Metal's Backend Transfer network
- Should work with broadly with [Equinix Metal hardware](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/docs/metal/hardware/standard-servers/) (including [4x port boxes](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/servers/n3-xlarge/) and the [s3.xlarge](https://deploy.equinix.com/product/servers/s3-xlarge/)

## Documentation

- [TLDR on how this works](docs/tldr.md)
- [Provisioning](docs/provisioning.md)
    1. [Privisioning video](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/EWDXuOfNxCNDoZGRYgbz8JEBnQkky7fWD1Th4Eg5O41WLA?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=aYpY6H)
- [Video adding a VM from Cloud install](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/Ectv795zYmZHp4nE7-ODOHgBR6GN8E2KDuwWCUwJ8BDsww?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=G8TKEf)
- [Video adding Windows VM from ISO w/ VLAN](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/EWZj3Z3qULdIgkaPjOQzfwABOzGsgL3huqt33Na9SprmGg?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=BwEkH6)
- [Video adding container with example of `podman pull` to show equivalent of `docker pull`](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/ERTMEtdsHONAj25OjlxtGdIBF6Tb9Or6_r5OT0AOpJB1qg?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=14QHeH)
- [Video adding a new Metal VLAN network](https://equinixinc-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/dlotterman_equinix_com/Eb0FZxWqfzpKhuYssc7XjeABtbEu3LAOHLODJ65Iiql9mQ?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJPbmVEcml2ZUZvckJ1c2luZXNzIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXciLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJNeUZpbGVzTGlua0RpcmVjdCJ9fQ&e=m8Dvrv)
- [Security TLDR (WIP)](docs/security_tldr.md)
- [TODO](docs/todo.md)
- [Known Issues](docs/known_issues.md)

The video links are links to Equinix's 0365 Sharepoint (sharepoint.com), and they are just hosted MP4's. The public share may expire from time to time, my apologies, corporate policy.

### Tools you will want

- A well setup SSH toolchain including a public key associated with your user in Equinix Metal
  - This includes the use of SSH based Interconnection
    - [SOCKS](https://github.com/dlotterman/metal_code_snippets/blob/main/documentation_stage/operator_documentation/bastion_socks_tunnel_guide.md#configuring-ssh-with-socks)
	- With a correctly configured SOCKs proxy, you can naviate *"inside"* or private resources like ESXi interfaces, storage interfaces, or Interconnection attached resources, easily from a single point. It is often easiest to "Dedicate a browser to the function", [Firefox Portable](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/1286588) makes this easy and supports tunneled DNS.
    - [Local / Remote Port Forwading](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-setup-ssh-tunneling/)
      - This makes things like RDP'ing to a hosted VM simple and fast. No fiddling with VPN's, no dangerous exposed ports to the internet. Everything gets encrypted, everything stays private.
- A VNC client
  - The author promotes [TigerVNC](https://github.com/TigerVNC/tigervnc)
    - [VNC over SSH](https://sscf.ucsd.edu/self-help-guides/tutorials/linux/vnc-with-ssh-tunnel)


## EM SA Network Schema:
[Reference link](https://github.com/dlotterman/metal_code_snippets/blob/main/documentation_stage/em_sa_network_schema.md)
| Role            | VLAN      | Default Layer-3         |
|-----------------|-----------|-------------------------|
| `mgmt_a`        | `3880`    | `172.16.100.0/24`       |
| `mgmt_b`        | `3780`    | `192.168.101.0/24`      |
| `storage_a`     | `3870`    | `172.16.253.0/24`       |
| `storage_b`     | `3770`    | `192.168.252.0/24`      |
| `local_a`       | `3860`    | `172.16.251.0/24`       |
| `local_b`       | `3760`    | `192.168.250.0/24`      |
| `inter_a`       | `3850`    | `172.16.249.0/24`       |
| `inter_b`       | `3750`    | `192.168.248.0/24`      |
| `libvirt/guest` | `4`       | `DHCP 192.168.122.0/24` |
